# On Time Delay Interpolation for Improved Acoustic Reflector Localization

This repository contains the code for the paper "On Time Delay Interpolation for Improved Acoustic Reflector Localization", which was submitted to the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America (JASA). A preprint of this publication can be found on [ArXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04629).

Authors: Hannes Rosseel and Toon van Waterschoot.

## How to use the code

The code is written in Python 3.11. The required packages are listed in `requirements.txt`. To install the required packages, run the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The code is organized as follows:

- `data/`: Contains the results and the *MYRiAD* dataset used in the paper.
- `figures/`: Contains the figures generated in the paper.
- `config/`: Contains the configuration files for the simulations.
- `src/`: Contains the source code for the simulations.
- `lib/`: Contains the helper functions for the simulations.
- `visualization/`: Contains scripts for visualizing the results of the simulations and the real-world measurements.
- `tests/`: Contains the unit tests for the source code.

To run the simulations, execute the following command:

```bash
python src/simulations.py
```

To run the real-world measurements, execute the following command:

```bash
python src/measurements_myriad.py
```

The results of the simulations are stored in the `results/` directory. The figures can be generated by running the Python scripts in the `visualization/` directory.

## MYRiAD dataset

The *MYRiAD* dataset used in the paper is available at the following link: [MYRiAD dataset](https://zenodo.org/records/7389996). The dataset contains the impulse responses and recordings of two rooms with various microphone array and a loudspeaker array configurations. The dataset is used to evaluate the performance of the interpolation methods on real-world measurements.

To use the *MYRiAD* dataset, download the dataset and extract the contents to the `data/` directory. The path to the dataset recordings should be `data/myriad/audio/`.

## Citation

If you use this code in your research, consider citing the repository and the preprint below:

```
@misc{rosseel2025time,
      title={On Time Delay Interpolation for Improved Acoustic Reflector Localization}, 
      author={Hannes Rosseel and Toon van Waterschoot},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2509.04629},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={eess.AS},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.04629}, 
}
```
